you know what is the biggest pain point of the Swiss insurance industry? Claims? Yes,
all of you take insurance policies
with an understanding that if tomorrow you
need a claim, the insurance
company will pay the claim, and when you don't
get the claim, it is very sad. It feels as if
we have leaked the policy, what was the benefit of
taking the policy, when the need arose, it was less, so
today we will talk about what could be the
reasons for your claim rejection in insurance.
You can see 12 reasons due to which
your insurance claim can be
rejected, watch this video and keep
all these things in mind so that your
claim is not rejected and you do not feel sad.
Before starting the video, I would
like to introduce myself. My name
is Goodlink Gota. I am a Certified
Financial Planner. I bring every video so that
your insurance journey
becomes very happy and easy because the
tagline of our company is Creating a
Belt of Happiness. Let's move
towards the video. Top 12 Reasons  The other reason for claim mis-
rejection is that the first reason is delay in intimation
of claim. If you have any accident and
want to raise any claim, then there is a time
limit of 48 to 7 days. You
can check this with the insurance company. The
insurance company has to
raise a claim within this time. If you are
not able to do this, then there are high chances that the
insurance company may reject your claim. So
keep this in mind.
Inform timely. If this company incurs any loss, then
according to me, you should
call immediately and intimating the claim.
Secondly, if that claim is
fraudulent, now what is the definition of fraudulent here?
See, the insurance
contract is a contract
of trust. Contract of good faith. Here, the
insurance that you are taking, you are
trusting the insurer. If there is any problem with my car tomorrow, then the
insurance
company will give you the claim. Secondly, the insurer is also
trusting you that whatever you do  They will
give correct information, they will not give false information. It is
said that I will put my hand on the Gita and tell the truth. I will not say
anything other than the truth. You have to
only tell the truth and not lie. So,
actually when it comes to your insurance claim,
if the insurer finds out that
you have lied somewhere, then he will
call the claim fraudulent and will not approve it.
Many times,
in the process of getting multiple claims, you
think that the car was already parked in the front and it got
delayed at the back. You make up such a story at both places
that the insurance company will
not even know about it. They have surveyors.
You will do a proper inspection of the car and only
after that the claim will be settled. And in most of the
cases, the surveyor finds out whether the
story is fabricated or a genuine story.
So keep this in mind, if it turns out to be
fraudulent proof, then you will
not get the claim. Thirdly, it is very important
if you are driving the car and you are
in a drunken state, that is, if you are under the influence
of alcohol and you  You were driving and
because of that the car got hit, whether it was someone
's mistake, your mistake or the
mistake of another person, because of that the accident happened, then the
insurance company will not pay the claim. If
you are under the influence of alcohol, then
this is very common, that is,
claim is not given in health and insurance and in this
also the claim is not given, for debt matter
term insurance
can also give claim, if you are driving under the influence of alcohol
and death occurs, then take
special care of this thing that do
not drive after drinking. Fourth, if you do not have a valid
driving license, our motor law
says that you must have a valid driving
license, if you are driving a car, then
by valid I mean that its
validity should have expired, proper license
and you have a license for the vehicle which you are driving,
for example, if you are
driving a commercial car, then the license for commercial is
different, if you are
driving a private vehicle, then its license is different,
so you must have a proper license,
if you do not have a license and
it  If your vehicle gets damaged in a condition then the
insurance company will pay the claim. Fifth
is related to the same. If you
violate the terms and conditions of the policy then the
insurance company will not pay you the claim.
What does this mean? It means that you had taken an
insurance policy for a private vehicle
and you are using it for commercial purposes
and while going on the road, you meet with an accident
and your vehicle gets damaged, then in that case the
insurance company will pay its claim because you are
not doing this for your personal use but for commercial use. So
you are violating the terms and conditions of the policy,
so the company's
claim will be cancelled.
Obviously, if your
current and this policy lapses, there is no
contract between you and the insurance company, then the
insurance company will not pay the claim.
So, that is why it is said that you should renew your policy
before the due date,
especially because in other policies you get a
grace period. In health and
insurance, if the insurance period is
exceeded even by a day, that means today if
your  The due date was today after 12:00 PM.
Even if you do it after 12 PM, it still becomes
Shaurya Labs because of you. Your
insurance company re-inspects
and the insurance is done again and
in most of the cases, re-insurance is
not possible. If there are any minor
scratches or anything in the car, the insurance will
decline it and your insurance will
not be possible. So, it is important that you
renew your car insurance within the due date so that
you do not lose this income. Seventh, there is
a coverage scope in your car insurance policy.
When you look at the features there, one is
third party. You
can also see the details in our video which we have
already uploaded.
We have covered all the points in great detail in it. So, if you have taken
third party insurance and one on
dimensions insurance, you can also take add-ons
like zero depression consumables,
Indian cover, tyre cover, loss of key and so on.
If you have taken a car insurance policy, then
its coverage will be made, you will look at the options available there, when
you go to claim.
And if the claim is made for it, suppose
your claim is made and the
tyre of your car bursts while you are on the move, then what will happen in it,
if you have not taken tyre protection
then you will not be given the claim, or if
you lose the key of your car then you will
not get the claim for the key of the car, keep in mind
what all coverage you have taken,
you will be given the claim according to that, the
account of the insurance company, this is also a very important point
because many people get their car
modified, if you have got the car
modified and have not informed the insurer, then the
insurance company can file your claim,
for example CNG kit,
most of the people do that, after buying the car you got the
CNG kit installed and did
not inform the insurance company, I did not pay attention here, I thought there is
no need to inform, but when the
claim came, I saw the insurance, this
indicator is there, so they
can only file the claim, why did you not inform us, why did you not
update the RC
and why did you not update the insurance policy, then it is
possible that you have to file a claim
What happens is that if you make some modifications, it
impacts the original make of the car. For example, whatever
was the original condition of the car when you
bought the car, you got anything done other than that, you got the
tyres changed, got alloy wheels installed, got
suspension installed, so what happens is that the
risk for the insurance company changes.
When it was from the original manufacturer, the
insurance did not reduce the risk, the risk was
underwritten accordingly. Now when you are making changes, the
risk for the insurance company changes, so it is
important for you to inform the insurance company about the modifications you have done,
otherwise there will be a problem at the time of claim. The
next point is if you are not the owner of the car that you
drive. We had also made a short list about
when the joint claim is
not received. Many
people asked the question there that it does not happen
that you will drive someone else's car, it happens
many times, when you buy a second hand car,
many times you take
time in transferring the name, right?  That
transfer process is still in progress
and a claim is made in between.
Many times I have seen that if
you have done it with your own friend, then you do
not even want to transfer it to him,
you think that he is a friend, what will happen? So
tomorrow if you have done it with your friend
and have not changed your RCB, is
not making any changes in the insurance policy
and you are driving that car, then the
insurance company can apply for the claim on time.
If your car is seized and is not in your name, then the
insurance company can completely
cancel it. So take special care of this thing.
As soon as you buy the car,
transfer the ownership as well. Next is if there is
any damage to the car due to your negligence, then
also the insurance company will not pay the claim.
Next point is if you get your car
repaired, suppose you have a
claim, your car meets with an accident and gets damaged, even if
you get it repaired before the survey is done, then also the
server will raise an objection and there will be a
problem in your insurance claim and it will
not be given for insurance.
Last but not the list, which quantitative
loss is also not covered, which quantitative loss is also not covered,
what does it mean, your car has an accident,
you are standing in the middle of the road, you
take the driving facility, then you
will see many companies provide roadside resistance,
so your car is being towed away through the roadside system,
and on the
way it is found that some other part has also got
damaged which was not caused by the accident, then the
insurance company calls this
quantitative loss, then the
insurance company will not give the claim for this, so these are some
things, if you take care of them then you will never face any problem in the claim,
your car
insurance claim will never be rejected, if
you are serious about this, you will know, if you
remain informed about these things,
you will not face any problem in the claim, if you have any
question, you want to give any feedback, if you
want to ask anything, ask in the comment section,
our phone number, WhatsApp number,
email ID is mentioned, you
can reach out to us, if you want to buy any kind of policy now,
you can do my job and
know more  Quick reminder before this, if
you have not yet subscribed to our channel, then
subscribe so that you get the right
information and at the right time. See you
soon in the next video with a new topic.
Thank you so much for watching. Stay with us, take
care and be
happy and
apart from that I will not say anything else, I
mean if you are a
worldwide